<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
		"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="zh-CN"><head><meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy，see www.w3.org"/>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>什么是数学：对思想和方法的基本研究（中文版第三版）</title>
<link href="../Styles/style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head><body>
<h1 class="title1">参考书目1</h1>
<p class="normaltext">W. Ahrens. Mathematische Unterhaltungen und Spiele, 2nd edition, 2 vols. Leipzig: Teubner, 1910．</p>
<p class="normaltext">W. W. Rouse Ball. Mathematical Recreations and Essays, 11th edition, revised by H. S. M. Coxeter. New York: Macmillan, 1939．</p>
<p class="normaltext">E. T. Bell. The Development of Mathematics. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1940．</p>
<p class="normaltext">——. Men of Mathematics. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1937．</p>
<p class="normaltext">T. Dantzig. Aspects of Science. New York: Macmillan, 1937．</p>
<p class="normaltext">A. Dresden. An Invitation to Mathematics. New York: Holt, 1936．</p>
<p class="normaltext">F. Enriques. Questioni riguardanti le matematiche elementari, 3rd edition, 2 vols. Bologna: Zanichelli, 1924 and 1926．</p>
<p class="normaltext">E. Kasner and J. Newman. Mathematics and the Imagination. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1940．</p>
<p class="normaltext">F. Klein. Elementary Mathematics from an Advanced Standpoint, translated by E. R. Hedrick and C. A. Noble, 2 vols. New York: Macmillan, 1932 and 1939．</p>
<p class="normaltext">M. Kraitchik. La Mathématique des Jeux. Brussels: Stevens, 1930．</p>
<p class="normaltext">O. Neugebauer. Vorlesungen über Geschichte der antiken mathematischen Wissenschaften. Erster Band: Vorgriechische Mathematik. Berlin: Springer, 1934．</p>
<p class="normaltext">H. Poincaré. The Foundations of Science. Lancaster, Pa. : Science Press, 1913．</p>
<p class="normaltext">H. Rademacher und O. Toeplitz. Von Zahlen und Figuren, 2nd edition. Berlin: Springer, 1933．</p>
<p class="normaltext">B. Russell. Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy. London: Allen and Unwin, 1924．</p>
<p class="normaltext">——. The Principles of Mathematics, 2nd edition. New York: Norton, 1938．</p>
<p class="normaltext">D. E. Smith. A Source Book in Mathematics. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1929．</p>
<p class="normaltext">H. Steinhaus. Mathematical Snapshots. New York: Stechert, 1938．</p>
<p class="normaltext">H. Weyl. "The Mathematical Way of Thinking, " Science, XCII (1940) p. 437 ff．</p>
<p class="normaltext">H. Weyl. Philosophie der Mathematik und Naturwissenschaft, Handbuch der Philosophie, Bd. Ⅱ. Munich: Oldenbourg, 1926, pp. 3-162．</p>
<p class="subtitle1">第1章</p>
<p class="normaltext">L. E. Dickson. Introduction to the Theory of Numbers. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1931．</p>
<p class="normaltext">——. Modern Elementary Theory of Numbers. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1939．</p>
<p class="normaltext">G. H. Hardy. "An Introduction to the Theory of Numbers, " Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society, ⅩⅩⅩⅤ (1929), p. 789 ff．</p>
<p class="normaltext">G. H. Hardy and E. M. Wright. An Introduction to the Theory of Numbers. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1938．</p>
<p class="normaltext">J. V. Uspensky and M. H. Heaslet. Elementary Number Theory. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1939．</p>
<p class="subtitle1">第2章</p>
<p class="normaltext">G. Birkhoff and S. MacLane. A Survey of Modern Algebra. New York: Macmillan, 1941．</p>
<p class="normaltext">M. Black. The Nature of Mathematics. New York: Harcourt, Brace, 1935．</p>
<p class="normaltext">T. Dantzig. Number, the Language of Science, 3rd edition. New York: Macmillan, 1939．</p>
<p class="normaltext">G. H. Hardy. A Course of Pure Mathematics, 7th edition. Cambridge: University Press, 1938．</p>
<p class="normaltext">K. Knopp. Theory and Application of Infinite Series, translated by Miss R. C. Young. London: Blackie, 1928．</p>
<p class="normaltext">A. Tarski. Introduction to Logic. New York: Oxford University Press, 1939．</p>
<p class="normaltext">F. Enriques. The Historic Development of Logic, translated by J. Rosenthal. New York: Holt, 1929．</p>
<p class="subtitle1">第3章</p>
<p class="normaltext">J. L. Coolidge. A History of Geometrical Methods. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1940．</p>
<p class="normaltext">A. De Morgan. A Budget of Paradoxes, 2 vols. Chicago: Open Court, 1915．</p>
<p class="normaltext">L. E. Dickson. New First Course in the Theory of Equations. New York: Wiley, 1939．</p>
<p class="normaltext">F. Enriques (editor). Fragen der Elementargeometrie, 2nd edition, 2 vols. Leipzig: Teubner, 1923．</p>
<p class="normaltext">E. W. Hobson. "Squaring the Circle, " a History of the Problem. Cambridge: University Press, 1913．</p>
<p class="normaltext">A. B. Kempe. How to Draw a Straight Line. London: Macmillan, 1877．</p>
<p class="normaltext">F. Klein. Famous Problems of Geometry, translated by W. W. Beman and D. E. Smith, 2nd edition. New York: Stechert, 1930．</p>
<p class="normaltext">L. Mascheroni. La geometria del compasso. Palermo: Reber, 1901．</p>
<p class="normaltext">G. Mohr. Euclides Danicus. Copenhagen: H∅lst, 1928．</p>
<p class="normaltext">J. M. Thomas. Theory of Equations. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1938．</p>
<p class="normaltext">L. Weisner. Introduction to the Theory of Equations. New York: Wiley, 1939．</p>
<p class="subtitle1">第4章</p>
<p class="normaltext">W. C. Graustein. Introduction to Higher Geometry. New York: Macmillan, 1930．</p>
<p class="normaltext">D. Hilbert. The Foundations of Geometry, translated by E. J. Townsend, 3rd edition. La Salle, Ill. : Open Court, 1938．</p>
<p class="normaltext">C. W. O' Hara and D. R. Ward. An Introduction to Projective Geometry. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1937．</p>
<p class="normaltext">G. de B. Robinson. The Foundations of Geometry. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1940．</p>
<p class="normaltext">Girolamo Saccheri. Euclides ab omni naevo vindicatus, translated by G. B. Halsted. Chicago: Open Court, 1920．</p>
<p class="normaltext">R. G. Sanger. Synthetic Projective Geometry. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1939．</p>
<p class="normaltext">O. Veblen and J. W. Young. Projective Geometry, 2 vols. Boston: Ginn, 1910 and 1918．</p>
<p class="normaltext">J. W. Young. Projective Geometry. Chicago: Open Court, 1930．</p>
<p class="subtitle1">第5章</p>
<p class="normaltext">P. Alexandroff. Einfachste Grundbegriffe der Topologie. Berlin: Springer, 1932．</p>
<p class="normaltext">D. Hilbert und S. Cohn-Vossen. Anschauliche Geometrie. Berlin: Springer, 1932．</p>
<p class="normaltext">M. H. A. Newman. Elements of the Topology of Plane Sets of Points. Cambridge: University Press, 1939．</p>
<p class="normaltext">H. Seifert und W. Threlfall. Lehrbuch der Topologie. Leipzig: Teubner, 1934．</p>
<p class="subtitle1">第6章</p>
<p class="normaltext">R. Courant. Differential and Integral Calculus, translated by E. J. McShane, revised edition, 2 vols. New York: Nordemann, 1940．</p>
<p class="normaltext">G. H. Hardy. A Course of Pure Mathematics, 7th edition. Cambridge: University Press, 1938．</p>
<p class="normaltext">W. L. Ferrar. A Text-book of Convergence. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1938．</p>
<p class="normaltext">　For the theory of continued fractions see, e. g．</p>
<p class="normaltext">S. Barnard and J. M. Child. Advanced Algebra. London: Macmillan, 1939．</p>
<p class="subtitle1">第7章</p>
<p class="normaltext">R. Courant.“Soap Film Experiments with Minimal Surfaces,”American Mathematical Monthly, ⅩLⅦ (1940), pp. 167-174．</p>
<p class="normaltext">J. Plateau. "Sur les figures d' équilibre d' une masse liquide sans pésanteur, " Mémoires de l' Académie Royale de Belgique, nouvelle série, ⅩⅩⅢ (1849)．</p>
<p class="normaltext">——. Statique expérimentale et théoretique des Liquides. Paris: 1873．</p>
<p class="subtitle1">第8章</p>
<p class="normaltext">C. B. Boyer. The Concepts of the Calculus. New York: Columbia University Press, 1939．</p>
<p class="normaltext">R. Courant. Differential and Integral Calculus, translated by E. J. Mc-Shane, revised edition, 2 vols. New York: Nordemann, 1940．</p>
<p class="normaltext">G. H. Hardy. A Course of Pure Mathematics, 7th edition. Cambridge: University Press, 1938．</p>
</body></html>